Hi.
We within this lecture.
You going to take care of our signing in and signing up process.
So let's go in our sign in we you comptroller and we're going to impart the higher base first of all
because we're going to use the firebase modules over here.
Right.
And then we're going to use this password tags user name tags and email text because we want to check
to see if they're empty or not.
So I'm going to say if user name text that text is not an empty string and if password tags that tax
is not an empty string Caswell and this time we're going to have the email tax as well.
In fact we're going to use user name text text for the first time over here because we're going to sign
the users up and then we're going to use this user name to save their user name as well.
So let me create my make alert function over here because we're going to need it so much.
So I'm going to take in a title and a message as a string variable and I'm going to create my alert.
So this will be a UI alert controller.
This will ask me for a title and I'm going to give it the title that I am taking as an input.
And the message as well and the style will be an alert then I'm creating an okay button and this will
be a UI alert action.
This will ask me for a title which is OK and the style which is default and we don't need any handler.
So later on I'm going to add this as an action to my alert and I'm going to present this.
OK.
Alert here with an animation.
And without that completion I'm doing all of this very fast because we have been doing it for a long
time right now.
So for a title I'm going to say error and for message why don't you give me a user name password or
e-mail.
OK.
So over here if this are if these conditions hold then I'm going to sign my users up.
So I'm going to use off in order to do that.
And remember we have to go for create user.
So when we say create user it will ask us for an e-mail and a password.
So e-mail will come from e-mail text the text and I can for as I wrap this.
And for password I need password text that text right now for completion block I will hit enter.
It will give me either an old they tell results.
I'm going to call this off and or an error.
OK so let me close this down and if error is not nil then I'm going to display this air to the user.
So I'm going to say South stop make Ellard and title will be error and the message will be error dot
localized description.
And if this is actually not an error message I'm going to display only the error message.
So else if there is not any error what do I do.
I want to perform I Segway way actually OK to feed we see and of course I'm going to do this eventually
anyway.
But before we do that I want to go ahead and save my user name to defy your base file your sir.
So there's no way there is no space to save our user name in the authentication module.
So I'm going to use five sir.
Of course other down besides the end user name you can just say whatever you want like user gender user
other specifications user location user country using phone number.
But I I'm just going to go for user name.
But you will understand how this works.
So first of all I need to create my father's store variable.
OK so this is fire started out fire store and I will use this fire as store to create a collection.
So remember we have worked with posts before.
Right now I'm going to call this user info.
After that I'm going to say user info dot adds document.
So this will ask me for a string to any dictionary and I'm going to call this user a dictionary in which
we will have the email address of the user.
And I can get this from email text and why I'm saving this because I'm going to search for our user
name this email later on so I can get this from off as well.
But since I have this on my user email text texts it's easier to get it from there.
So email text that's text okay.
And then later on I'm going to just save the user name as well.
And this will be from the user name text not text.
So this is the dictionary that I'm looking for.
So come over here and say user dictionary and as you can see there's a strength to strength you dictionary
and I'm going to cast is as to be a string to any dictionary.
OK.
Once I do that.
Yeah.
It asks me to put stuff over here and it's right because we are in a closure right.
And then later on I believe this will give us an warning saying that.
Yeah.
Why don't you use just an S. rather down first casting this.
Yeah we can do that as long as we have string to any dictionary.
Doesn't matter for us and in here I'm going to hit enter because I'm going to get an error over here
and I'm going to check to see if this error is nil or not.
So in this case it's your choice to display any error message to the user since you have been doing
that already.
You may want to do that over here as well or you may just skip it but at this point the user connection
may get lost or something.
So maybe you can just go ahead and display this error message over here as well.
And if this works well then it will just save my user name to defy your star.
So let me test this and let's see if we can see the user name and email in the fire star.
So once I hit the rumba then you will see some warnings over here which are related to failure your
base modules mostly.
So I'm going to ignore them and this will take some time as you can see it's trying to build 9000 tasks
because we have so much task because we have imported firebase.
So we have to wait until it's finished and then we're going to try our code.
And if this works out then we will see the email and our user name in the fires sir.
So let's test this.
I'm going to say James that Metallica that's come over here and James Hetfield has user name and I'm
going to give some one two three four five six password.
If I had sign up button it will sign me up and bring me into the feed.
So if I go over here if I refresh this and we're not in the database I'm just refreshing this search.
So let me go into the database and here you go.
Now we see the user info collection and once it loads we will see the details like documents.
And here you go we see the email and the user name.
Now I can try to get this user name by just providing the email.
And of course in the authentication I have my user as well.
Now it's all good.
So we have our email I user name start in the user info collection.
Now where are you going to use that later on in the feed.
We have a controller.
But right now let me go to sign in.
We have controller.
OK because we are going to take care of this signing clicked function as well.
So I'm going to copy and paste this because we're going to check to see if these are empty or not again.
And if these are empty we're going to display the same error message and in here we're going to call
the authentication one more time and rather than creating the user we're going to sign the user in that
email and password and completion block so e-mail will come from e-mail text and password will come
from Password text.
So let's say e-mail tax not text.
OK.
And for passwords say password tax that text I'm for signing up this and completion hit enter.
This will give me either a result or an error.
So as a result an error if error is not nil then I'm going to display this error message to the user.
So I'm going to say self-taught make alerts and title will be error the message will be errors that
localised description.
And if this is empty I'm going to say error owls owls I'm going to do a Segway and I'm going to do the
say grade to feed.
We have controller OK there will be Neal and in fact at this point we don't need to check to see if
the user name text is empty or not because you're not going to use this user name.
We can just sign in the user with email and password.
Even though we're going to use the user name in the real app at this point we just need the email and
password.
If they are signing in in the sign up of course we have to check it because we want to save it to the
fire star.
So let me open it one more time and try to do as sign in from here so I'm going to say James said Metallica
dot com and for password I'm going to give one two three four five six and sign him in as you can see
now you're signed in and we're in the feed we've controller.
Of course we have to take care of this out and remember user functions.
That's what we're going to do within the next lecture.